How do Microservices Architecture Work

Client send the request
Security and Identity Management like OKTA will be implemented between client and microservices.
API gateway : It acts as an entry point for each and every indicvidual trying to access the application and from api gateway we have routing mechanism which routes each and every request depending on its nature to which of the microservices it want to redirect to.
Then we have microservices
Then we have Service Discovery. It is server which acts a a registry and holds each and every address of each and every microservice.


How do Microservcies Communicate With Each Other : 
There are 2 Different Types of Inter service Communication between microservices
1) Synchronous
2) Asynchronous 

Synchronous Communication :
The clients service waits for the response within a time limit. The possible solution is using Http protocol using via REST API for interservice communication.
Eg
REST API
GraphQl
Feign Using Eureka Discoveries
GRPC( 10 times faster than REST API)

Asynchronous Communication : The client Service doesnt wait for the response from another service. When the client microservice calls another microservice , thread is not blocked till the response comes from ther seerver.

The message producer service generates a message and sends the message to a message broker on a defined topic.
The message broker waits only for the acknowledgement from the message broker to know that the message is received by the broker.
The consuming service subscribes to the topic in the emssaging queue.All the messages belonging to the topic will be fed to the consuming system.
The message producer service and message consumer service dont even know each other.

In async communication,to inititate such type of communication a microservice who wants to send some data to another microservice publishes a message to a separate component known as message broker.
It is responsible for handling the message sent by the producer service and it will gurantee message delivery.

After the message is received by the broker, its now its job to pass the message to the target service.
If the recipient is down at the moment,the broker might be configured to retry a slong as necessary for sucessful delivery

These messages can be persisted if required or stored only in memory.In the latter case, they will be lost when the broker is restarted and they are not yet sent to the consumer.

Different messaging tools are based on AMQP(Advances Messaging Queueing Protocol)
Apache Kafka
RabbitMQ
ActivemQ

What if the Message Broker is Down
A message broker is a vital part of asynchronous architecture and hence must be fault tolerant.
This can be achieved by setting up additional standby replicas that can do failover.

 Its essential to ensure the messages arrive at its destination, a broker might be configured to work in at least once mode. Afte the message reaches the consumer,it needs to send back ACK to the broker. If no acknowledgement gets to the broker, it will retry the delivery after some time.


Differnece between Monolithic, SOA and Microservices Architecture
A service oreinted architecture is a collection of services which communicate with each other.
The communication can involve either simple data passing or it could involve two or more services coordinating some activity.

Main differnce between SOA and MS is based on sahring of data and info.
SOA shares and resuses as much as possible while MS focuses on sharing as little as possible.

How to Design Microservices :
1) A separate data store for each of the microservice
2) The application needs to be split into lossely coupled microservices based on business functionality.
3) Decentralized framework
4) Polyglot architecture as per the business needs
5) Services to be designed, developed and managed separately
6) Domain-driven design
7) Rela-time monitoring of the application should be possible
8) Deploy in containers

Types of Async Communication
1) Point to Point
2) Publisher Subscriber

PTP Async Communication :
A Queue will be used for this type of message-based communication.
The service that produces the message which is called as producer will send the message to queue in one messsage broker and the service that has an interest in that message which is called consumer will consume that message from queue and carry out further process for that message.

One messsage sent by the producer can be consumed by only one receiver and the message will be deleted after consumed.

If the receiver or an interested service is down, the message will remain persistent in that queue until the receiver is up and consumes that message.

For this reason, messaging based communication is one of the best choices to make our microservices resilient.

A popular choice for the queueing system is RabbitMQ, ActiveMQ

Publisher-Subscriber Async Communication :
In publisher-subscriber messaging-based communication the topic in the message broker will be used to store the message sent by the publisher and then the subsribers that subscribe to that topic will consume that message.

The message will be ready to consume for all subscribers and the topic can have one or more subscribers.The message remains persistent in a topic until we delete it.

In messaging-based communication the services that consume message either from queue or topic must know the common message structure that is prodcued or published by proudcer or subscriber.

eg are Kafka, Amazon SNS etc

Event Based Async Communication:
Unlike messaging-based communication, in event-based communication, especially in event-driven pattern, the servcies that consume the emssage do not need to know the details of the message.

In event-driven pattern services just push the event to the topic in message broker and then the services that subscribe to that topic will react for each occurence event in that topic. Each event in the topic will be related to specific business logic execution 

Pros and Cons of Synchronous Communication
Pros : Synchronous communication is simpler in design
Cons : Carries the risk of spreading failures across services.

Ways to mitigate Synchronous Communication 
The architect must implement sophisticated service discovery and load balancing among microservices.

Pros and Cons of Asynchronous Communication :
Pros : Resilience and Scalability
       Provide better control over failures than synchronous setups
       Loosely coupled microservices
Cons : Async communication has lesser architectural simplicity and data consistency

When to use which Communication Method

Use sync when you need immediate response.
Caller depend son immediate result
Ideal Use cases
1) User-facing API;s : Get user details, 
                       Fetch order status
2) Validation checks before proceeding : Payment verification
                                         Inventory Check

Use async when immediate response is NoT required.
Ideal Use Cases 
EVent Driven workflows
Background tasks
High-sclae systems
Loose coupling needed

Common Scenarios
Sending emails/notifications
Order lifecycle events
Logging & auditing


KAFKA
Apache kafka is publish-subscribe based fault tolernace messaging system. It is fast, scalable and distributed by design

Pros of Kafka
1) Loose coupling : Neither service knows about each other regarding data update matters
2) Durability : Guarantees that the message will be delivered even if the consumer service is down. Whenever the consumer gets up again, all messages will be there
3) Scalibility : Since the messages gets stored in a bucket there is no need to wait for responses.
4) Flexibility : The sender of a message has no idea who is going to consume it.Meaning we can easily add new consumers with less work

Cons of Kafka
1)Semantics : The developers need to have deep understanding of the message flow as its strict requirements.
2) Message visibility : You must track all those messages to allow you to debug whenever a problem occurs.

ActiveMQ/RabbitMQ                                  Kafka
1) use them for eaxtly once delivery and           Use kafka for highe rperformance monitoring and where lossing  for valuing messages                               messages is not importnant
2) Lower throughput since each delivery            Higher throughput since producers dont wait for acknowledgement
  message state is maintained                      from brokers.
3) Cannot assure the order of messages             Can assure messages retain the order in which they are sent
   to remain same
4) Work of filtering is done by the JMS API        No fundamental filters ath the brokers.Hence it must be done    message selector and not by the applications      by consumers or apps.
5) Push type messaging platform wherein the        Pull Type smessaging platform wherein consumers pull the       providers push the messages to consumers           messages from the broker
6)Responsibility of producers to ensure            Responsibility of consumers to consume messages
delivery of messages      
7) Acknowledgement based. The messages are         Policy Based. kafa messages are always forever saved until the  removed from the queue once they are processed    retention time expires, the developers have no other option
and acknowledged
8)No constaints -payload size                       Default 1 MB limit


Steps to Configure Kafka
Need to install zookeeper and kafka in local

Project Set up
1) Spring Boot Project
2) Kafka dependency in web
3) Cintroller to fetch messages from client
4) Producer who push these messages/events to topic
5) Consumer to listen to it
6) Application.proeprties to configure producer peroperties
7) Run Zookeeper and kafka server

Project
Dependencies - Spring Web, Spring Apache Kafka

Controller
@RestController
@RequestMapping("/rest/api")
public class RestContollerToFetchMsg{

@Autowired
Producer producer;

@GetMapping("/producerMsg")
public void getMessageFroClient(@RequestParam("message") String message){
   producer.sendMsgToTopic(message);
}
}

Service
Producer
@Service
public class Prodcuer{
@Autowired
KafkaTemplate<String,String> kafkaTemplate ;

public void sendMsgToTopic(String message){
 kafkaTemplate.send("code_decode_topic",message);
}
}


Consumer
@Service
public class Consumer{

@KafkaListener(topics="code-decode_topic",groupId="")
 public void listenTotopic(String message){
   System.out.println("The emssage received is "+message);
 }
}

Cluster -> Broker -> Topics -> Partitions -> offset -> Msg/Event

Topics : 
A bucket of message where services may place or read messages from.
A topic is simlar to folder and these messages are the files in that folder.
Topics are multi-producer and multi-subscriber.

Kafka topics are divided into number of partitions which contain msgs/events in an unchaneable sequence.
Each msg in a partition is assigned and identified by its unique offset. A topic can also have multiple partition.

Kafka cluster : A kafka cluster is a system that comprises of different brokers, topics and their respective partitions.

Producers :
Producers sends or writes data/messages to the topic within the cluster.Before a producer can send any messages it has to request metadata about the cluster from the broker.

Consumers :
A consumer is the one taht reads or consumes message from the kafka cluster  . The beauty of kafka is that eacg consumer knows from where it needs to consume the data

Zookeeper :
For the prupose of managing and coordinating, Kafka broker uses Zookeeper.

A zookeeper is used to store information about kafka clusters and details of the consumer clients. It manages brokers by maintaining list of them
Brokers/kafka servers are staeless,hence for maintaining the cluster state they use zookeeper. Also, zookeeper is responsible for choosing aleader for the partitions.

Also, uses it to notify producer and consumer about the presence of any new broker in the kafka system or failure of the broker in the kafka system.

As soon as the zookeeper sends the notification regarding presence or failure of the broker then producer and consumer,take the decision and starts coordinating their task with some other broker.

SAGA
Lets take example of Swiggy, Zomato:
Choose Dishes
Add them to cart and Checkout
Make payment 
Order gets Delivered
Order marked as completed after delivery is sucessful.

In monolithic its not a problem as we have 1 database and multiple tables like Order, Payment, Delivery etc. Now In one single atomic transaction we can do all these steps and if payment fails, everything gets rolled back.

Now we move dto microservices architecture and seggregated the whole swiggy or zomato application to :
Order Service
Payment Service
Delivery Service

Order service accepts the order, payment service validates the payment done and Delivery service is responsible for delivery of your order to home. When delivered sucesfully order is marked as completed in the application.
This is happy case.

Second scenario, delivery gets failed as no delivery partner was available.
Payment was done, money got deducted and now no food.At least we need to get money back and order must be marked as cancelled.
For this to happen we need a transaction rollback. Transaction did get rolled back but the only scope of transaction was in Delivery Service 

Here application completely failed to manage distributed transaction. This isa problem and to handle such distributed transaction, SAGA Design Pattern came into picture.

SAGA
A saga is a sequence of the local transactions.
Each saga has two jobs to do :
1) Update the current microservice and make the required changes
2) Publish events to trigger the next transaction forthe next microservices

So saga pattern groups these local transactions and sequentially invoke one by one. Eaxh local transaction updates the database and publishes an event to trigger the next local transaction.

If one of the step failed, saga pattern trigger to rollback traansactions that are a set of compensating transactions that rollback the changes on previous microservices and restore data consistency.

Ways to implemrent SAGA
There are 2 types of saga implementayion ways :
1) Choreography
2) Orchestration

Choreography : It is a way to coordinate saga where participants exchange events without a centralized point of control.
With choreography, each microservices run its own local transactions and publishes events to message broker system and that trigger local transactions in other microservices.

Advantages of Choreography :
1) Good for simple workflow that requires few participants and dont need coordination logic
2) Doesnt require additional service implementation and maintenance.
3) Doesnt introduce a single point of failure, since the responsibilities are distributed across saga participants.

Disadvantages of Choreography :
1) Workflow can become confusing when adding new steps as its difficult to track which saga participants listen to which commands.
2) There is a risk of cyclic dependency between saga participants because they have to comsuem each other's command
3)Integration testing is difficult because all services must be running to simulate a transaction.


Orchestration :
Orchestration is way to coordinate saga where a centralized controller tells the saga participants what local transactions to execute.
The saga orchestrator handles all the transactions and tells the particpants which operation to perform based on events.
The orchestrator:
1) executes saga requests
2) stores and interprets the states of each task
3) handles failure recovery with compensating transactions

Advantages :
1)Good for complex workflows involving many participants or new particpants added over time
2)Suitable when there is control over every participant in the process and control over the flow of activities.
3) Doesnt introduce cyclic dependencies because the orchestrator unilateraaly depends on the sgsa particpants.
4)Saga particpants dont need to know about commands for other particpants. Clear separation of concerns simplifies business logic.

Disadvantages :
1)Additional design complexity requires an implementation of coordination logic
2) There is an additional point of failure because the orchestrator manages the complete workflow

How to handle more users in Microservices based application
1) Load Balancing
2) Horizontal Sacling
3) Caching
4)Autoscaling
5) Database Scaling
6) Asynchronous Processing












































